.. index:: region2vmd

region2vmd command
==================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   region2vmd file keyword arg ...

* filename = name of file to write VMD script commands to
* zero or more keyword/arg pairs may be appended
* keyword = *region* or *color* or *material* or *command*

  .. parsed-literal::

     *region* region-ID = name of region to translate to VMD graphics
     *color* color-name = set color for following visualized objects
     *material* material-name = set material for following visualized objects
     *command* string = string with custom VMD script command (in quotes)

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   region2vmd regions.vmd material Opaque color red region c1 color green region c2
   region2vmd vizbox.vmd command "mol new system.lammpstrj waitfor all" region box
   region2vmd regdefs.vmd region upper region lower region hole

Description
"""""""""""

.. versionadded:: TBD

Write a `VMD <https://ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/>`_ Tcl script file with
commands that aim to create a visualization of :doc:`regions <region>`.
There may be multiple region visualizations stored in a single file.

The visualization is implemented by creating a new (and empty) "VMD
molecule" and then assigning a sequence of VMD graphics primitives to
represent the region in VMD.  Each region will be stored in a separate
"VMD molecule" with the name "LAMMPS region <region ID>".

The *region2vmd* command is following by the filename for the resulting
VMD script and an arbitrary number of keyword argument pairs to either
write out a new *region* visualization, change the *color* or *material*
setting, or to insert arbitrary VMD script *command*\ s.  The keywords
and arguments are processed in sequence.

The *region* keyword must be followed by a previously defined LAMMPS
:doc:`region <region>`.  Only a limited set region styles and region
settings are currently supported.  See **Restrictions** below.
Unsupported region styles or regions with unsupported settings will be
skipped and a corresponding message is printed.

The *color* keyword must be followed by a color name that is defined in
VMD.  This color will be used by all following region visualizations.
The default setting is 'silver'. VMD has the following colors
pre-defined:

.. table_from_list::
   :columns: 11

   * blue
   * red
   * gray
   * orange
   * yellow
   * tan
   * silver
   * green
   * white
   * pink
   * cyan
   * purple
   * lime
   * mauve
   * ochre
   * iceblue
   * black
   * yellow2
   * yellow3
   * green2
   * green3
   * cyan2
   * cyan3
   * blue2
   * blue3
   * violet
   * violet2
   * magenta
   * magenta2
   * red2
   * red3
   * orange2
   * orange3

The *material* keyword must be followed by a material name that is defined in
VMD.  This material will be used by all following visualizations.  The
default setting is 'Transparent'.  VMD has the following materials
pre-defined:

.. table_from_list::
   :columns: 8

   * Opaque
   * Transparent
   * BrushedMetal
   * Diffuse
   * Ghost
   * Glass1
   * Glass2
   * Glass3
   * Glossy
   * HardPlastic
   * MetallicPastel
   * Steel
   * Translucent
   * Edgy
   * EdgyShiny
   * EdgyGlass
   * Goodsell
   * AOShiny
   * AOChalky
   * AOEdgy
   * BlownGlass
   * GlassBubble
   * RTChrome

The *command* keyword must be followed by a VMD script command as a
single string in quotes.  This VMD command will be directly inserted
into the created VMD script.

The created file can be loaded into VMD either from the command line
with the '-e' flag, or from the command prompt with 'play <script
file>', or from the File menu via "Load VMD visualization state".

.. admonition:: Setting the "top" molecule in VMD
   :class: note

   It is usually desirable to have the "molecule" with the LAMMPS
   trajectory set at "top" molecule in VMD and not one of the "region
   molecules".  The VMD script generated by this region2vmd assumes that
   this molecule is already loaded and set as the current "top"
   molecule.  Thus at the beginning of the script the index of the top
   molecule is stored in the VMD variable 'oldtop' and at the end of the
   script, that "top" molecule is restored.  If no molecule is loaded,
   this can be inserted into the script with a custom command. The
   molecule index to this new molecules should be assigned to the oldtop
   variable.  This can be done with e.g.  ``set oldtop [mol new
   {regions.vmd} waitfor all]``

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This command is part of the EXTRA-COMMAND package.  It is only enabled
if LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package
<Build_package>` page for more info.

Only the following region styles are currently supported: *block*,
*cone*, *cylinder*, *ellipsoid*, *prism*, and *sphere*. Regions formed
from unions or intersections of other regions are not supported.

Rotating regions are currently not supported.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`region <region>`

Defaults
""""""""

*color* = silver, *material* = Transparent
